                     R.A.Salvatore
                   The Silent Blade

    (Forgotten Realms novell. Path of Darkness. Book I)
    
                       PROLOGUE

    Wulfgar lay back in his bed, pondering, trying to come to 
terms with the abrupt changes that I had come over his life. 
Rescued from the demon Errtu and his hellish prison in the 
Abyss, the proud barbarian found himself once again among 
friends and allies. Bruenor, his adopted dwarven father, was 
here, and so was Drizzt, his dark elven mentor and dearest 
friend. Wulfgar could tell from the snoring that Regis, the 
chubby halfling, was sleeping contentedly in the next room.
    And Catti-brie, dear Catti-brie, the woman Wulfgar had 
come to love those years before, the woman whom he had 
planned to marry seven years previously in Mithril Hall. They 
were all here at their home in Icewind Dale, reunited and 
presumably at peace, through the heroic efforts of these 
wonderful friends.
    Wulfgar did not know what that meant.
    Wulfgar, who had been through such a terrible ordeal over 
six years of torture at the clawed hands of the demon Errtu, 
did not understand.
    The huge man crossed his arms over his chest. Sheer 
exhaustion put him here in bed, forced him down, for he would 
not willingly choose sleep. Errtu found him in his dreams.
    And so it was this night. Wulfgar, though deep in thought 
and deep in turmoil, succumbed to his exhaustion and fell 
into a peaceful blackness that soon turned again into the 
images of the swirling gray mists that were the Abyss. There 
sat the gigantic, bat-winged Errtu, perched upon his carved 
mushroom throne, laughing. Always laughing that hideous 
croaking chuckle. That laugh was borne not out of joy, but 
was rather a mocking thing, an insult to those the demon 
chose to torture. Now the beast aimed that unending 
wickedness at Wulfgar, as was aimed the huge pincer of 
Bizmatec, another demon, minion of Errtu. With strength 
beyond the bounds of almost any other human, Wulfgar 
ferociously wrestled Bizmatec. The barbarian batted aside the 
huge humanlike arms and the two other upper-body appendages, 
the pincer arms, for a long while, slapping and punching 
desperately.
    But too many flailing limbs came at him. Bizmatec was too 
large and too strong, and the mighty barbarian eventually 
began to tire.
    It ended-always it ended-with one of Bizmatec's pincers 
around Wulfgar's throat, the demon's other pincer arm and its 
two humanlike arms holding the defeated human steady. Expert 
in this, his favorite torturing technique, Bizmatec pressed 
oh so subtly on Wulfgar's throat, took away the air, then 
gave it back, over and over, leaving the man weak in the 
legs, gasping and gasping as minutes, then hours, slipped 
past.
    Wulfgar sat up straight in his bed, clutching at his 
throat, clawing a scratch down one side of it before he 
realized that the demon was not there, that he was safe in 
his bed in the land he called home, surrounded by his 
friends.
    Friends . . .
    What did that word mean? What could they know of his 
torment? How could they help him chase away the enduring 
nightmare that was Errtu?
    The haunted man did not sleep the rest of the night, and 
when Drizzt came to rouse him, well before the dawn, the dark 
elf found Wulfgar already dressed for the road. They were to 
leave this day, all five, bearing the artifact Crenshinibon 
far, far to the south and west. They were bound for Caradoon 
on the banks of Impresk Lake, and then into the Snowflake 
Mountains to a great monastery called Spirit Soaring where a 
priest named Cadderly would destroy the wicked relic.
    Crenshinibon. Drizzt had it with him when he came to get 
Wulfgar that morning. The drow didn't wear it openly, but 
Wulfgar knew it was there. He could sense it, could feel its 
vile presence. For Crenshinibon remained linked to its last 
master, the demon Errtu. It tingled with the energy of the 
demon, and because Drizzt had it on him and was standing so 
close, Errtu, too, remained close to Wulfgar.
    "A fine day for the road," the drow remarked light-
heartedly, but his tone was strained, condescending, Wulfgar 
noted. With more than a little difficulty, Wulfgar resisted 
the urge to punch Drizzt in the face.
    Instead, he grunted in reply and strode past the 
deceptively small dark elf. Drizzt was but a few inches over 
five feet, while Wulfgar towered closer to seven feet than to 
six, and carried fully twice the weight of the drow. The 
barbarian's thigh was thicker than Drizzt's waist, and yet, 
if it came to blows between them, wise bettors would favor 
the drow.
    "I have not yet wakened Catti-brie," Drizzt explained.
    Wulfgar turned fast at the mention of the name. He stared 
hard into the drow's lavender eyes, his own blue orbs 
matching the intensity that always seemed to be there.
    "But Regis is already awake and at his morning meal-he is 
hoping to get two or three breakfasts in before we leave, no 
doubt," Drizzt added with a chuckle, one that Wulfgar did not 
share. "And Bruenor will meet us on the field beyond Bryn 
Shander's eastern gate. He is with his own folk, preparing 
the priestess Stumpet to lead the clan in his absence."
    Wulfgar only half heard the words. They meant nothing to 
him. All the world meant nothing to him.
    "Shall we rouse Catti-brie?" the drow asked.
    "I will," Wulfgar answered gruffly. "You see to Regis. If 
he gets a belly full of food, he will surely slow us down, 
and I mean to be quick to your friend Cadderly, that we might 
be rid of Crenshinibon."
    Drizzt started to answer, but Wulfgar turned away, moving 
down the hall to Catti-brie's door. He gave a single, 
thunderous knock, then pushed right through. Drizzt moved a 
step in that direction to scold the barbarian for his rude 
behavior-the woman had not even acknowledged his knock, after 
all-but he let it go. Of all the humans the drow had ever 
met, Catti-brie ranked as the most capable at defending 
herself from insult or violence.
    Besides, Drizzt knew that his desire to go and scold 
Wulfgar was wrought more than a bit by his jealousy of the 
man who once was, and perhaps was soon again, to be Catti-
brie's husband.
    The drow stroked a hand over his handsome face and turned 
to find Regis.

                      * * * * *

    Wearing only a slight undergarment and with her pants 
half pulled up, the startled Catti-brie turned a surprised 
look on Wulfgar as he strode into her room. "Ye might've 
waited for an answer," she said dryly, brushing away her 
embarrassment and pulling her pants up, then going to 
retrieve her tunic.
    Wulfgar nodded and held up his hands-only half an 
apology, perhaps, but a half more than Catti-brie had 
expected. She saw the pain in the man's sky blue eyes and the 
emptiness of his occasional strained smiles. She had talked 
with Drizzt about it at length, and with Bruenor and Regis, 
and they had all decided to be patient. Time alone could heal 
Wulfgar's wounds.
    "The drow has prepared a morning meal for us all," 
Wulfgar explained. "We should eat well before we start on the 
long road."
    " 'The drow'? " Catti-brie echoed. She hadn't meant to 
speak it aloud, but so dumbfounded was she by Wulfgar's 
distant reference to Drizzt that the words just slipped out. 
Would Wulfgar call Bruenor "the dwarf"? And how long would it 
be before she became simply "the girl"? Catti-brie blew a 
deep sigh and pulled her tunic over her shoulders, reminding 
herself pointedly that Wulfgar had been through hell-
literally. She looked at him now, studying those eyes, and 
saw a hint of embarrassment there, as though her echo of his 
callous reference to Drizzt had indeed struck him in the 
heart. That was a good sign.
    He turned to leave her room, but she moved to him, 
reaching up to gently stroke the side of his face, her hand 
running down his smooth cheek to the scratchy beard that he 
had either decided to grow or simply hadn't been motivated 
enough to shave.
    Wulfgar looked down at her, at the tenderness in her 
eyes, and for the first time since the fight on the ice floe 
when he and his friends had dispatched wicked Errtu, there 
came a measure of honesty in his slight smile.

                      * * * * *

    Regis did get his three meals, and he grumbled about it 
all that morning as the five friends started out from Bryn 
Shander, the largest of the villages in the region called Ten 
Towns in forlorn Icewind Dale. Their course was north at 
first, moving to easier ground, and then turning due west. To 
the north, far in the distance, they saw the high structures 
of Targos, second city of the region, and beyond the city's 
roofs could be seen shining waters of Maer Dualdon.
    By mid-afternoon, with more than a dozen miles behind 
them, they came to the banks of the Shaengarne, the great 
river swollen and running fast with the spring melt. They 
followed it north, back to Maer Dualdon, to the town of 
Bremen and a waiting boat Regis had arranged.
    Gently refusing the many offers from townsfolk to remain 
in the village for supper and a warm bed, and over the many 
protests of Regis, who claimed that he was famished and ready 
to lay down and die, the friends were soon west of the river, 
running on again, leaving the towns, their home, behind.
    Drizzt could hardly believe that they had set out so 
soon. Wulfgar had only recently been returned to them. All of 
them were together once more in the land they called their 
home, at peace, and yet, here they were, heeding again the 
call of duty and running down the road to adventure. The drow 
had the cowl of his traveling cloak pulled low about his 
face, shielding his sensitive eyes from the stinging sun.
    Thus his friends could not see his wide smile.
    
                             Part 1

                             APATHY
    
    Often I sit and ponder the turmoil I feel when my blades 
are at rest, when all the world around me seems at peace. 
This is the supposed ideal for which I strive, the calm that 
we all hope will eventually return to us when we are at war, 
and yet, in these peaceful times-and they have been rare 
occurrences indeed in the more than seven decades of my life-
I do not feel as if I have found perfection, but, rather, as 
if something is missing from my life.
    It seems such an incongruous notion, and yet I have come 
to know that I am a warrior, a creature of action. In those 
times when there is no pressing need for action, I am not at 
ease. Not at all.
    When the road is not filled with adventure, when there 
are no monsters to battle and no mountains to climb, boredom 
finds me. I have come to accept this truth of my life, this 
truth about who I am, and so, on those rare, empty occasions 
I can find a way to defeat the boredom. I can find a mountain 
peak higher than the last I climbed.
    I see many of the same symptoms now in Wulfgar, returned 
to us from the grave, from the swirling darkness that was 
Errtu's corner of the Abyss. But I fear that Wulfgar's state 
has transcended simple boredom, spilling into the realm of 
apathy. Wulfgar, too, was a creature of action, but that 
doesn't seem to be the cure for his lethargy or his apathy. 
His own people now call out to him, begging action. They have 
asked him to assume leadership of the tribes. Even stubborn 
Berkthgar, who would have to give up that coveted position of 
rulership, supports Wulfgar. He and all the rest of them 
know, at this tenuous time, that above all others Wulfgar, 
son of Beornegar, could bring great gains to the nomadic 
barbarians of Icewind Dale.
    Wulfgar will not heed that call. It is neither humility 
nor weariness stopping him, I recognize, nor any fears that 
he cannot handle the position or live up to the expectations 
of those begging him. Any of those problems could be 
overcome, could be reasoned through or supported by Wulfgar's 
friends, myself included. But, no, it is none of those 
rectifiable things.
    It is simply that he does not care.
    Could it be that his own agonies at the clawed hands of 
Errtu were so great and so enduring that he has lost his 
ability to empathize with the pain of others? Has he seen too 
much horror, too much agony, to hear their cries?
    I fear this above all else, for it is a loss that knows 
no precise cure. And yet, to be honest, I see it clearly 
etched in Wulfgar's features, a state of self-absorption 
where too many memories of his own recent horrors cloud his 
vision. Perhaps he does not even recognize someone else's 
pain. Or perhaps, if he does see it, he dismisses it as 
trivial next to the monumental trials he suffered for those 
six years as Errtu's prisoner. Loss of empathy might well be 
the most enduring and deep-cutting scar of all, the silent 
blade of an unseen enemy, tearing at our hearts and stealing 
more than our strength. Stealing our will, for what are we 
without empathy? What manner of joy might we find in our 
lives if we cannot understand the joys and pains of those 
around us, if we cannot share in a greater community? I 
remember my years in the Underdark after I ran out of 
Menzoberranzan. Alone, save the occasional visits from 
Guenhwyvar, I survived those long years through my own 
imagination.
    I am not certain that Wulfgar even has that capacity left 
to him, for imagination requires introspection, a reaching 
within one's thoughts, and I fear that every time my friend 
so looks inward, all he sees are the minions of Errtu, the 
sludge and horrors of the Abyss.
    He is surrounded by friends, who love him and will try 
with all their hearts to support him and help him climb out 
of Errtu's emotional dungeon. Perhaps Catti-brie, the woman 
he once loved (and perhaps still does love) so deeply, will 
prove pivotal to his recovery. It pains me to watch them 
together, I admit. She treats Wulfgar with such tenderness 
and compassion, but I know that he feels not her gentle 
touch. Better that she slap his face, eye him sternly, and 
show him the truth of his lethargy. I know this and yet I 
cannot tell her to do so, for their relationship is much more 
complicated than that. I have nothing but Wulfgar's best 
interests in my mind and my heart now, and yet, if I showed 
Catti-brie a way that seemed less than compassionate, it 
could be, and would be-by Wulfgar at least, in his present 
state of mind- construed as the interference of a jealous 
suitor.
    Not true. For though I do not know Catti-brie's honest 
feelings toward this man who once was to be her husband-for 
she has become quite guarded with her feelings of late-I do 
recognize that Wulfgar is not capable of love at this time.
    Not capable of love ... are there any sadder words to 
describe a man? I think not, and wish that I could now assess 
Wulfgar's state of mind differently. But love, honest love, 
requires empathy. It is a sharing-of joy, of pain, of 
laughter, of tears. Honest love makes one's soul a reflection 
of the partner's moods. And as a room seems larger when it is 
lined with mirrors, so do the joys become amplified. And as 
the individual items within the mirrored room seem less 
acute, so does pain diminish and fade, stretched thin by the 
sharing.
    That is the beauty of love, whether in passion or 
friendship. A sharing that multiplies the joys and thins the 
pains. Wulfgar is surrounded now by friends, all willing to 
engage in such sharing, as it once was between us. Yet he 
cannot so engage us, cannot let loose those guards that he 
necessarily put in place when surrounded by the likes of 
Errtu.
    He has lost his empathy. I can only pray that he will 
find it again, that time will allow him to open his heart and 
soul to those deserving, for without empathy he will find no 
purpose. Without purpose, he will find no satisfaction. 
Without satisfaction, he will find no contentment, and 
without contentment, he will find no joy.
    And we, all of us, will have no way to help him.
    
    -Drizzt Do'Urden
    
                            Chapter 1
                        A STRANGER AT HOME

    Artemis Entreri stood on a rocky hill overlooking the 
vast, dusty city, trying to sort through the myriad feelings 
that swirled within him. He reached up to wipe the blowing 
dust and sand from his lips and from the hairs of his newly 
grown goatee. Only as he wiped it did he realize that he 
hadn't shaved the rest of his face in several days, for now 
the small beard, instead of standing distinct upon his face, 
fell to ragged edges across his cheeks. Entreri didn't care.
    The wind pulled many strands of his long hair from the 
tie at the back of his head, the wayward lengths slapping 
across his face, stinging his dark eyes. Entreri didn't care.
    He just stared down at Calimport and tried hard to stare 
inside himself. The man had lived nearly two-thirds of his 
life in the sprawling city on the southern coast, had come to 
prominence as a warrior and a killer there. It was the only 
place that he could ever really call home. Looking down on it 
now, brown and dusty, the relentless desert sun flashed 
brilliantly off the white marble of the greater homes. It 
also illuminated the many hovels, shacks, and torn tents set 
along roads-muddy roads only because they had no proper 
sewers for drainage. Looking down on Calimport now, the 
returning assassin didn't know how to feel. Once, he had 
known his place in the world. He had reached the pinnacle of 
his nefarious profession, and any who spoke his name did so 
with reverence and fear. When a pasha hired Artemis Entreri 
to kill a man, that man was soon dead. Without exception. And 
despite the many enemies he had obviously made, the assassin 
had been able to walk the streets of Calimport openly, not 
from shadow to shadow, in all confidence that none would be 
bold enough to act against him.
    No one would dare shoot an arrow at Artemis Entreri, for 
they would know that the single shot must be perfect, must 
finish this man who seemed above the antics of mere mortals, 
else he would then come looking for them. And he would find 
them, and he would kill them.
    A movement to the side, the slight shift of a shadow, 
caught Entreri's attention. He shook his head and sighed, not 
really surprised, when a cloaked figure leaped out from the 
rocks, some twenty feet ahead of him and stood blocking the 
path, arms crossed over his burly chest.
    "Going to Calimport?" the man asked, his voice thick with 
a southern accent.
    Entreri didn't answer, just kept his head straight ahead, 
though his eyes darted to the many rocks lining both sides of 
the trail.
    "You must pay for the passage," the burly man went on. "I 
am your guide." With that he bowed and came up showing a 
toothless grin.
    Entreri had heard many tales of this common game of money 
through intimidation, though never before had one been bold 
enough to block his way. Yes, indeed, he realized, he had 
been gone a long time. Still he didn't answer, and the burly 
man shifted, throwing wide his cloak to reveal a sword under 
his belt.
    "How many coins do you offer?" the man asked.
    Entreri started to tell him to move aside but changed his 
mind and only sighed again.
    Deaf?" said the man, and he drew out his sword and 
advanced yet another step. "You pay me, or me and my friends 
will take the coins from your torn body."
    Entreri didn't reply, didn't move, didn't draw his 
jeweled dagger, his only weapon. He just stood there, and his 
ambivalence seemed to anger the burly man all the more.
    The man glanced to the side-to Entreri's left-just 
slightly, but the assassin caught the look clearly. He 
followed it to one of the robber's companions, holding a bow 
in the shadows between two huge rocks.
    "Now," said the burly man. "Last chance for you."
    Entreri quietly hooked his toe under a rock, but made no 
movement other than that. He stood waiting, staring at the 
burly man, but with the archer on the edge of his vision. So 
well could the assassin read the movements of men, the 
slightest muscle twitch, the blink of an eye, that it was he 
who moved first. Entreri leaped out diagonally, ahead and to 
the left, rolling over and kicking out with his right foot. 
He launched the stone the archer's way, not to hit the man-
that would have been above the skill even of Artemis Entreri-
but in the hopes of distracting him. As he came over into the 
somersault, the assassin let his cloak fly wildly, hoping it 
might catch and slow the arrow.
    He needn't have worried, for the archer missed badly and 
would have even if Entreri hadn't moved at all.
    Coming up from the roll, Entreri set his feet and squared 
himself to the charging swordsmen, aware also that two other 
men were coming over the rocks at either side of the trail.
    Still showing no weapon, Entreri unexpectedly charged 
ahead, ducking the swipe of the sword at the last possible 
instant, then came up hard behind the swishing blade, one 
hand catching the attacker's chin, the other snapping behind 
the man's head, grabbing his hair. A twist and turn flipped 
the swordsman on the ground. Entreri let go, running his hand 
up the man's weapon arm to fend off any attempted attacks. 
The man went down on his back hard. At that moment Entreri 
stomped down on his throat. The man's grasp on the sword 
weakened, almost as if he were handing the weapon to Entreri.
    The assassin leaped away, not wanting to get his feet 
tangled as the other two came in, one straight ahead, the 
other from behind. Out flashed Entreri's sword, a straight 
left-handed thrust, followed by a dazzling, rolling stab. The 
man easily stepped back out of Entreri's reach, but the 
attack hadn't been designed to score a hit anyway. Entreri 
flipped the sword to his right hand, an overhand grip, then 
stepped back suddenly, so suddenly, turning his hand and the 
blade. He brought it across his body, then stabbed it out 
behind him. The assassin felt the tip enter the man's chest 
and heard the gasp of air as he sliced a lung.
    Instinct alone had Entreri spinning, turning to the right 
and keeping the attacker impaled. He brought the man about as 
a shield against the archer, who did indeed fire again. But 
again, the man missed badly, and this time the arrow burrowed 
into the ground several feet in front of Entreri.
    "Idiot," the assassin muttered, and with a sudden jerk, 
he dropped his latest victim to the dirt, bringing the sword 
about in the same fluid movement. So brilliantly had he 
executed the maneuver that the remaining swordsman finally 
understood his folly, turned about, and fled.
    Entreri spun again, threw the sword in the general 
direction of the archer, and bolted for cover.
    A long moment slipped past.
    Where is he?" the archer called out, obvious fear and 
frustration in his voice. "Merk, do you see him?"
    Another long moment passed.
    "Where is he?" the archer cried again, growing frantic. 
"Merk, where is he?"
    "Right behind you" came a whisper. A jeweled dagger 
flashed, slicing the bowstring and then, before the stunned 
man could begin to react, resting against the front of his 
throat.
    "Please," the man stammered, trembling so badly that his 
movements, not Entreri's, caused the first nick from that 
fine blade. "I have children, yes. Many, many children. 
Seventeen ..."
    He ended in a gurgle as Entreri cut him from ear to ear, 
bringing his foot up against the man's back even as he did, 
then kicking him facedown to the ground.
    "Then you should have chosen a safer career," Entreri 
answered, though the man could not hear.
    Peering out from the rocks, the assassin soon spotted the 
fourth of the group, moving from shadow to shadow across the 
way. The man was obviously heading for Calimport but was 
simply too scared to jump out and run in the open. Entreri 
knew that he could catch the man, or perhaps re-string the 
bow and take him down from this spot. But he didn't, for he 
hardly cared. Not even bothering to search the bodies for 
loot, Entreri wiped and sheathed his magical dagger and moved 
back onto the road. Yes, he had been gone a long, long time.
    Before he had left this city, Artemis Entreri had known 
his place in the world and in Calimport. He thought of that 
now, staring at the city after an absence of several years. 
He understood the shadowy world he had inhabited and realized 
that many changes had likely taken place in those alleys. Old 
associates would be gone, and his reputation would not likely 
carry him through the initial meetings with the new, often 
self-proclaimed leaders of the various guilds and sects.
    "What have you done to me, Drizzt Do'Urden?" he asked 
with a chuckle, for this great change in the life of Artemis 
Entreri had begun when a certain Pasha Pook had sent him on a 
mission to retrieve a magical ruby pendant from a runaway 
halfling. An easy enough task, Entreri had believed. The 
halfling, Regis, was known to the assassin and should not 
have proven a difficult adversary.
    Little did Entreri know at that time that Regis had done 
a marvelously cunning job of surrounding himself with 
powerful allies, particularly the dark elf. How many years 
had it been, Entreri pondered, since he had first encountered 
Drizzt Do'Urden? Since he had first met his warrior equal, 
who could rightly hold a mirror up to Entreri and show the 
lie that was his existence? Nearly a decade, he realized, and 
while he had grown older and perhaps a bit slower, the drow 
elf, who might live six centuries, had aged not at all.
    Yes, Drizzt had started Entreri on a path of dangerous 
introspection. The blackness had only been amplified when 
Entreri had gone after Drizzt again, along with the remnants 
of the drow's family. Drizzt had beaten Entreri on a high 
ledge outside Mithril Hall, and the assassin would have died, 
except that an opportunistic dark elf by the name of Jarlaxle 
had rescued him. Jarlaxle had then taken him to 
Menzoberranzan, the vast city of the drow, the stronghold of 
Lolth, Demon Queen of Chaos. The human assassin had found a 
different standing down there in a city of intrigue and 
brutality. There, everyone was an assassin, and Entreri, 
despite his tremendous talents at the murderous art, was only 
human, a fact that relegated him to the bottom of the social 
ladder.
    But it was more than simple perceptual standing that had 
struck the assassin profoundly during his stay in the city of 
drow. It was the realization of the emptiness of his 
existence. There, in a city full of Entreris, he had come to 
recognize the folly of his confidence, of his ridiculous 
notion that his passionless dedication to pure fighting skill 
had somehow elevated him above the rabble. He knew that now, 
looking down at Calimport, at the city he had known as a 
home, at his last refuge, it seemed, in all the world.
    In dark and mysterious Menzoberranzan, Artemis Entreri 
had been humbled.
    As he made his way to the distant city, Entreri wondered 
many times if he truly desired this return. His first days 
would be perilous, he knew, but it was not fear for the end 
of his life that brought a hesitance to his normally cocky 
stride. It was fear of continuing his life.
    Outwardly, little had changed in Calimport-the town of a 
million beggars, Entreri liked to call it. True to form, he 
passed by dozens of pitiful wretches, lying in rags, or 
naked, along the sides of the road, most of them likely in 
the same spot the city guards had thrown them that morning, 
clearing the way for the golden-gilded carriages of the 
important merchants. They reached toward Entreri with 
trembling, bony fingers, arms so weak and emaciated that they 
could not hold them up for even the few seconds it took the 
heartless man to stride past them.
    Where to go? he wondered. His old employer, Pasha Pook, 
was long dead, the victim of Drizzt's powerful panther 
companion after Entreri had done as the man had bade him and 
returned Regis and the ruby pendant. Entreri had not remained 
in the city for long after that unfortunate incident, for he 
had brought Regis in and that had led to the demise of a 
powerful figure, ultimately a black stain on Entreri's record 
among his less-than-merciful associates. He could have mended 
the situation, probably quite easily, by simply offering his 
normally invaluable services to another powerful guildmaster 
or pasha, but he had chosen the road. Entreri had been bent 
on revenge against Drizzt, not for the killing of Pook-the 
assassin cared little about that-but because he and Drizzt 
had battled fiercely without conclusion in the city's sewers, 
a fight that Entreri still believed he should have won.
    Walking along the dirty streets of Calimport now, he had 
to wonder what reputation he had left behind. Certainly many 
other assassins would have spoken ill of him in his absence, 
would have exaggerated Entreri's failure in the Regis 
incident in order to strengthen their own positions within 
the gutter pecking order.
    Entreri smiled as he considered the fact, and he knew it 
to be fact, that those ill words against him would have been 
spoken in whispers only. Even in his absence, those other 
killers would fear retribution. Perhaps he didn't know his 
place in the world any longer. Perhaps Menzoberranzan had 
held a dark . . . no, not dark, but merely empty mirror 
before his eyes, but he could not deny that he still enjoyed 
the respect.
    Respect he might have to earn yet again, he pointedly 
reminded himself.
    As he moved along the familiar streets, more and more 
memories came back to him. He knew where most of the guild 
houses had been located, and suspected that, unless there had 
been some ambitious purge by the lawful leaders of the city, 
many still stood intact, and probably brimming with the 
associates he had once known. Pook's house had been shaken to 
the core by the killing of the wretched pasha and, 
subsequently, by the appointment of the lazy halfling Regis 
as Pook's successor. Entreri had taken care of that minor 
problem by taking care of Regis, and yet, despite the chaos 
imposed upon that house, when Entreri had gone north with the 
halfling in tow, the house of Pook had survived. Perhaps it 
still stood, though the assassin could only guess as to who 
might be ruling it now.
    That would have been a logical place for Entreri to go 
and rebuild his base of power within the city, but he simply 
shrugged and walked past the side avenue that would lead to 
it. He thought he was merely wandering aimlessly, but soon 
enough he came to another familiar region and realized that 
he had subconsciously aimed for this area, perhaps in an 
effort to regain his heart.
    These were the streets where a young Artemis Entreri had 
first made his mark in Calimport, where he, barely a 
teenager, had defeated all challengers to his supremacy, 
where he had battled the man sent by Theebles Royuset, the 
lieutenant in powerful Pasha Basadoni's guild. Entreri had 
killed that thug and had later killed ugly Theebles, the 
clever murder moving him into Basadoni's generous favor. He 
had become a lieutenant in one of the most powerful guilds of 
Calimport, of all of Calimshan, at the tender age of 
fourteen.
    But now he hardly cared, and recalling the story did not 
even bring the slightest hint of a smile to his face. He 
thought back further, to the torment that had landed him here 
in the first place, trials too great for a boy to overcome, 
deception and betrayal by everyone he had known and trusted, 
most pointedly his own father. Still, he didn't care, 
couldn't even feel the pain any longer. It was meaningless, 
emptiness, without merit or point.
    He saw a woman in the shadows of one hovel, hanging 
washed clothes to dry. She shifted deeper into the shadows, 
obviously wary. He understood her concern, for he was a 
stranger here, dressed too richly with his thick, well-
stitched traveling cloak to belong in the shanty town. 
Strangers in these brutal places usually brought danger.
    "From there to there," came a call, the voice of a young 
man, full of pride and edged with fear. Entreri turned slowly 
to see the youth, a tall and gangly lad, holding a club laced 
with spikes, swinging it nervously.
    Entreri stared at him hard, seeing himself in the boy's 
face. No, not himself, he realized, for this one was too 
obviously nervous. This one would likely not survive for 
long.
    "From there to there!" the boy said more loudly, pointing 
with his free hand to the end of the street where Entreri had 
entered, to the far end, where the assassin had been going.
    "Your pardon, young master," Entreri said, dipping a 
slight bow, and feeling, as he did, his jeweled dagger, set 
on his belt under the folds of his cloak. A flick of his 
wrist could easily propel that dagger the fifteen feet, past 
the awkward youth's defenses and deep into his throat.
    "Master," the lad echoed, his tone as much that of an 
incredulous question as an assertion. "Yes, master," he 
decided, apparently liking the title. "Master of this street, 
of all these streets, and none walk them without the 
permission of Taddio." As he finished, he prodded his thumb 
repeatedly into his chest.
    Entreri straightened, and for just an instant, death 
flashed across his black eyes and the words "dead master" 
echoed through his thoughts. The lad had just challenged him, 
and the Artemis Entreri of a few years previous, a man who 
accepted and conquered all challenges, would have simply 
destroyed the youth where he stood.
    But now that flash of pride whisked by, leaving Entreri 
unfazed and uninsulted. He gave a resigned sigh, wondering if 
he would find yet another stupid fight this day. And for 
what? he wondered, facing this pitiful, confused little boy 
on an empty street over which no rational person would even 
deign to claim ownership. "I begged you pardon, young 
master," he said calmly. "I did not know, for I am new to the 
region and ignorant of your customs."
    "Then you should learn!" the lad replied angrily, gaining 
courage in Entreri's submissive response and coming forward a 
couple of strong strides.
    Entreri shook his head, his hand starting for the dagger, 
but going, instead to his belt purse. He pulled out a gold 
coin and tossed it to the feet of the strutting youth.
    The boy, who drank from sewers and ate the scraps he 
could rummage from the alleys behind the merchant houses, 
could not hide his surprise and awe at such a treasure. He 
regained his composure a moment later, though, and looked 
back at Entreri with a superior posture. "It is not enough," 
he said.
    Entreri threw out another gold coin, and a silver. "That 
is all that I have, young master," he said, holding his hands 
out wide.
    "If I search you and learn differently . . ." the lad 
threatened.
    Entreri sighed again, and decided that if the youth 
approached he would kill him quickly and mercifully.
    The boy bent and scooped up the three coins. "If you come 
back to the domain of Taddio, have with you more coins," he 
declared. "I warn you. Now begone! Out the same end of the 
street you entered!"
    Entreri looked back the way he had come. In truth, one 
direction seemed as good as any other to him at that time, so 
he gave a slight bow and walked back, out of the domain of 
Taddio, who had no idea how lucky he had been this day.

                      * * * * *

    The building stood three full stories and, decorated with 
elaborate sculptures and shining marble, was truly the most 
impressive abode of all the thieving guilds. Normally such 
shadowy figures tried to keep a low profile, living in houses 
that seemed unremarkable from the outside, though they were, 
in truth, palatial within. Not so with the house of Pasha 
Basadoni. The old man-and he was ancient now, closer to 
ninety than to eighty-enjoyed his luxuries, and enjoyed 
showing the power and splendor of his guild to all who would 
look.
    In a large chamber in the middle of the second floor, the 
gathering room for Basadoni's principle commanders, the two 
men and one woman who truly operated the day-to-day 
activities of the extensive guild entertained a young street 
thug. He was more a boy than a man, an unimpressive figure 
held in power by the backing of Pasha Basadoni and surely not 
by his own wiles.
    "At least he is loyal," remarked Hand, a quiet and subtle 
thief, the master of shadows, when Taddio left them. "Two 
gold pieces and one silver-no small take for one working that 
gutter section."
    "If that is all he received from his visitor," Sharlotta 
Vespers answered with a dismissive chuckle. Sharlotta stood 
tallest of the three captains, an inch above six feet, her 
body slender, her movements graceful-so graceful that Pasha 
Basadoni had nicknamed her his "Willow Tree." It was no 
secret that Basadoni had taken Sharlotta as his lover and 
still used her in that manner on those rare occasions when 
his old body was up to the task. It was common knowledge that 
Sharlotta had used those liaisons to her benefit and had 
climbed the ranks through Basadoni's bed. She willingly 
admitted as much, usually just before she killed the man or 
woman who had complained about it. A shake of her head sent 
waist-length black hair flipping back over one shoulder, so 
that Hand could see her wry expression clearly.
    "If Taddio had received more, then he would have 
delivered more," Hand assured her, his tone, despite his 
anger, revealing that hint of frustration he and their other 
companion, Kadran Gordeon, always felt when dealing with the 
condescending Sharlotta. Hand ruled the quiet services of 
Basadoni's operation, the pickpockets and the prostitutes who 
worked the market, while Kadran Gordeon dealt with the 
soldiers of the street army. But Sharlotta, the Willow Tree, 
had Basadoni's ear above them all. She served as the 
principal attendant of the Pasha and as the voice of the now 
little seen old man.
    When Basadoni finally died, these three would fight for 
control, no doubt, and while those who understood only the 
peripheral truths of the guild would likely favor the brash 
and loud Kadran Gordeon, those, such as Hand, who had a 
better feeling for the true inner workings, understood that 
Sharlotta Vespers had already taken many, many steps to 
secure and strengthen her position with or without the 
specter of Basadoni looming over them.
    "How many words will we waste on the workings of a boy?" 
Kadran Gordeon complained. "Three new merchants have set up 
kiosks in the market a stone's throw from our house without 
our permission. That is the more important matter, the one 
requiring our full attention."
    "We have already talked it through," Sharlotta replied. 
"You want us to give you permission to send out your 
soldiers, perhaps even a battle-mage, to teach the merchants 
better. You will not get that from us at this time."
    "If we wait for Pasha Basadoni to finally speak on this 
matter, other merchants will come to the belief that they, 
too, need not pay us for the privilege of operating within 
the boundaries of our protective zone." He turned to Hand, 
the small man often his ally in arguments with Sharlotta. But 
the thief was obviously distracted, staring down at one of 
the coins the boy Taddio had given to him. Sensing that he 
was being watched, Hand looked up at the other two.
    "What is it?" Kadran prompted.
    "I've not seen one like this," Hand explained, flipping 
the coin to the burly man.
    Kadran caught it and quickly examined it, then, with a 
surprised expression, handed it over to Sharlotta. "Nor have 
I seen one with this stamp," he admitted. "Not of the city, I 
believe, nor of anywhere in Calimshan."
    Sharlotta studied the coin carefully, a flicker of 
recognition coming to her striking light green eyes. "The 
crescent moon," she remarked, then flipped it over. "Profile 
of a unicorn. This is a coin from the region of Silverymoon."
    The other two looked to each, surprised, as was 
Sharlotta, by the revelation. "Silverymoon?" Kadran echoed 
incredulously.
    "A city far to the north, east of Waterdeep," Sharlotta 
replied.
    "I know where Silverymoon lies," Kadran replied dryly. 
"The domain of Lady Alustriel, I believe. That is not what I 
find surprising."
    "Why would a merchant, if it was a merchant, of 
Silverymoon find himself walking in Taddio's worthless shanty 
town?" Hand asked, echoing Kadran's suspicions perfectly.
    "Indeed, I thought it curious that anyone carrying such a 
treasure of more than two gold pieces would be in that 
region," Kadran agreed, pursing his lips and twisting his 
mouth in his customary manner that sent one side of his long 
and curvy mustache up far higher than the other, giving his 
whole dark face an unbalanced appearance. "Now it seems to 
have become more curious by far."
    "A man who wandered into Calimport probably came in 
through the docks," Hand reasoned, "and found himself lost in 
the myriad of streets and smells. So much of the city looks 
the same, after all. It would not be difficult for a 
foreigner to wander wayward."
    "I do not believe in coincidences," Sharlotta replied. 
She tossed the coin back to Hand. "Take it to one of our 
wizard associates-Giunta the Diviner will suffice. Perhaps 
there remains enough of a trace of the previous owner's 
identity upon the coins that Giunta can locate him."
    "It seems a tremendous effort for one too afraid of the 
boy to even refuse payment," Hand replied.
    "I do not believe in coincidences," Sharlotta repeated. 
"I do not believe that anyone could be so intimidated by that 
pitiful Taddio, unless it is someone who knows that he works 
as a front for Pasha Basadoni. And I do not like the idea 
that one so knowledgeable of our operation took it upon 
himself to wander into our territory unannounced. Was he, 
perhaps, looking for something? Seeking a weakness?" "You 
presume much," Kadran put in. "Only where danger is 
concerned," Sharlotta retorted. "I consider every person an 
enemy until he has proven himself differently, and I find 
that in knowing my enemies, I can prepare against anything 
they might send against me."
    There was little mistaking the irony of her words, aimed 
as they were at Kadran Gordeon, but even the dangerous 
soldier had to nod his agreement with Sharlotta's perception 
and precaution. It wasn't every day that a merchant bearing 
coins from far away Silverymoon wandered into one of 
Calimport's desolate shanty towns.

                      * * * * *

    He knew this house better than any in all the city. 
Within those brown, unremarkable walls, within the wrapper of 
a common warehouse, hung golden-stitched tapestries and 
magnificent weapons. Beyond the always barred side door, 
where an old beggar now huddled for meager shelter, lay a 
room of beautiful dancing ladies, all swirling veils and 
alluring perfumes, warm baths in scented water, and cuisine 
delicacies from every corner of the Realms.
    This house had belonged to Pasha Pook. After his demise, 
it had been given by Entreri's archenemy to Regis the 
halfling, who had ruled briefly, until Entreri had decided 
the little fool had ruled long enough. When Entreri had left 
Calimport with Regis, the last time he had seen the dusty 
city, the house was in disarray, with several factions 
fighting for power. He suspected that Quentin Bodeau, a 
veteran burglar with more than twenty years' experience in 
the guild, had won the fight. What he didn't know, given the 
confusion and outrage within the ranks, was whether the fight 
had been worth winning. Perhaps another guild had moved into 
the territory. Perhaps the inside of this brown warehouse was 
now as unremarkable as the outside.
    Entreri chuckled at the possibilities, but they could not 
find any lasting hold within his thoughts. Perhaps he would 
eventually sneak into the place, just to satisfy his mild 
curiosity. Perhaps not.
    He lingered by the side door, moving close enough past 
the apparently one-legged beggar, to recognize the cunning 
tie that bound his second leg up tight against the back of 
his thigh. The man was a sentry, obviously, and most of the 
few copper coins that Entreri saw within the opened sack 
before him had been placed there by the man, salting the 
purse and heightening the disguise.
    No matter, the assassin thought. Playing the part of an 
ignorant visitor to Calimport, he walked up before the man 
and reached into his own purse, producing a silver coin and 
dropping it in the sack. He noted the not-really-old man's 
eyes flicker open a bit wider when he pulled back his cloak 
to go to his purse, revealing the hilt of his unique jeweled 
dagger, a weapon well known in the alleys and shadows of 
Calimport.
    Had he been foolish in showing that weapon? Entreri 
wondered as he walked away. He hadn't any intention of 
revealing himself when he came to this place, but also, he 
had no intention of not revealing himself. The question and 
the worry, like his musing on the fate of Pook's house, found 
no hold in his wandering thoughts. Perhaps he had erred. 
Perhaps he had shown the dagger in a desperate bid for some 
excitement. And perhaps the man had recognized it as the mark 
of Entreri, or possibly he had noticed it only because it was 
indeed a truly beautiful weapon.
    It didn't matter.

                      * * * * *

    LaValle worked very hard to keep his breathing steady and 
to ignore the murmurs of those nervous associates beside him 
as he peered deeply into the crystal ball later that same 
night. The agitated sentry had reported the incident outside, 
a gift of a strange coin from a man walking with the quiet 
and confident gait of a warrior and wearing a dagger 
befitting the captain of a king's guard.
    The description of that dagger had sent the more veteran 
members of the house, the wizard LaValle included, into a 
frenzy. Now LaValle, a longtime associate of the deadly 
Artemis Entreri, who had seen that dagger many times and 
uncomfortably close far too often had used that prior 
knowledge and his crystal ball to seek out the stranger. His 
magical eyes combed the streets of Calimport, sifting from 
shadow to shadow, and then he felt the growing image and knew 
indeed that the dagger, Entreri's dagger, was back in the 
city. Now as the image began to take shape, the wizard and 
those standing beside him, a very nervous Quentin Bodeau and 
two younger cocky killers, would learn if it was indeed the 
deadliest of assassins who carried it.
    A small bedroom drifted into focus.
    "That is Tomnoddy's Inn," explained Dog Perry, who called 
himself Dog Perry the Heart because of his practice of 
cutting out a victim's heart fast enough that the dying man 
could witness its last beats (though none other than Dog 
Perry himself had ever actually seen this feat performed).
    LaValle held up a hand to silence the man as the image 
became sharper, focusing on the belt looped over the bottom 
post of the bed, a belt that included the telltale dagger.
    "It is Entreri's," Quentin Bodeau said with a groan.
    A man walked past the belt, stripped to the waist, 
revealing a body honed by years and years of hard practice, 
muscles twitching with every movement.
    Quentin put on a quizzical expression, studying the man, 
the long hair, the goatee and scratchy, unkempt beard. He had 
always known Entreri to be meticulous in every detail, a 
perfectionist to the extreme. He looked to LaValle for an 
answer.
    "It is he," the wizard, who knew Artemis Entreri perhaps 
better than anyone else in all the city, answered grimly.
    "What does that mean?" Quentin asked. "Has he returned as 
friend or foe?"
    "Indifferent, more likely," LaValle replied. "Artemis 
Entreri has always been a free spirit, never showing 
allegiance too greatly to any particular guild. He wanders 
through the treasuries of each, hiring to the highest bidder 
for his exemplary services." As he spoke, the wizard glanced 
over at the two younger killers, neither of whom knew Entreri 
other than by reputation. Chalsee Anguaine, the younger, 
tittered nervously-and wisely, LaValle knew-but Dog Perry 
squinted his eyes as he considered the man in the crystal 
ball. He was jealous, LaValle understood, for Dog Perry 
wanted, above all else, that which Entreri possessed: the 
supreme reputation as the deadliest of assassins.
    "Perhaps we should find a need for his services quickly," 
Quentin Bodeau reasoned, obviously trying hard not to sound 
nervous, for in the dangerous world of Calimport's thieving 
guilds, nervousness equalled weakness. "In that way we might 
better learn the man's intentions and purpose in returning to 
Calimport."
    "Or we could just kill him," Dog Perry put in, and 
LaValle bit back a chuckle at the so-predictable viewpoint 
and also at his knowledge that Dog Perry simply did not 
understand the truth of Artemis Entreri. No friend or fan of 
the brash young thug, LaValle almost hoped that Quentin would 
give Dog Perry his wish and send him right out after Entreri.
    But Quentin, though he had never dealt with Entreri 
personally, remembered well the many, many stories of the 
assassin's handiwork, and the expression the guildmaster 
directed at Dog Perry was purely incredulous.
    "Hire him if you need him," said LaValle. "Or if not, 
then merely watch him without threat."
    "He is one man, and we are a guild of a hundred," Dog 
Perry protested, but no one was listening to him anymore.
    Quentin started to reply, but stopped short, though his 
expression told LaValle exactly what he was thinking. He 
feared that Entreri had come back to take the guild, 
obviously, and not without some rationale. Certainly the 
deadliest of assassins still had many powerful connections 
within the city, enough for Entreri, with his own amazing 
skills, to topple the likes of Quentin Bodeau. But LaValle 
did not think Quentin's fears well-founded, for the wizard 
understood Entreri enough to realize that the man had never 
craved such a position of responsibility. Entreri was a 
loner, not a guildmaster. After he had deposed the halfling 
Regis from his short rein as guildmaster, the place had been 
Entreri's for the taking, and yet he had walked away, just 
walked out of Calimport altogether, leaving all of the others 
to fight it out.
    No, LaValle did not believe that Entreri had come back to 
take this guild or any other, and he did well to silently 
convey that to the nervous Quentin. "Whatever our ultimate 
choices, it seems obvious to me that we should first merely 
observe our dangerous friend," the wizard said, for the 
benefit of the two younger lieutenants, "to learn if he is 
friend, foe, or indifferent. It makes no sense to go against 
one as strong as Entreri until we have determined that we 
must, and that, I do not believe to be the case."
    Quentin nodded, happy to hear the confirmation, and with 
a bow LaValle took his leave, the others following suit.
    "If Entreri is a threat, then Entreri should be 
eliminated," Dog Perry said to the wizard, catching up to him 
in the corridor outside his room. "Master Bodeau would have 
seen that truth had your advice been different."
    LaValle stared long and hard at the upstart, not 
appreciating being talked to in that manner from one half his 
age and with so little experience in such matters, for 
LaValle had been dealing with dangerous killers such as 
Artemis Entreri before Dog Perry was even born. "I'll not say 
that I disagree with you," he said to the man.
    "Then why your counsel to Bodeau?"
    "If Entreri has come into Calimport at the request of 
another guild, then any move by Master Bodeau could bring 
dire consequences to our guild," the wizard replied, 
improvising as he went, for he didn't believe a word of what 
he was saying. "You know that Artemis Entreri learned his 
trade under Pasha Basadoni himself, of course."
    "Of course," Dog Perry lied.
    LaValle struck a pensive pose, tapping one finger across 
his pursed lips. "It may prove to be no problem at all to 
us," he explained. "Surely when news of Entreri's return-an 
older and slower Entreri, you see, and one, perhaps, with few 
connections left within the city-spreads across the streets, 
the dangerous man will himself be marked."
    "He has made many enemies," Dog Perry reasoned eagerly, 
seeming quite intrigued by LaValle's words and tone.
    LaValle shook his head. "Most enemies of the Artemis 
Entreri who left Calimport those years ago are dead," the 
wizard explained. "No, not enemies, but rivals. How many 
young and cunning assassins crave the power that they might 
find with a single stroke of the blade?"
    Dog Perry narrowed his eyes, just beginning to catch on.
    "One who kills Entreri, in essence, claims credit for 
killing all of those whom Entreri killed," LaValle went on. 
"With a single stroke of the blade might such a reputation be 
earned. The killer of Entreri will almost instantly become 
the highest priced assassin in all the city." He shrugged and 
held up his hands, then pushed through his door, leaving an 
obviously intrigued Dog Perry standing in the hallway with 
the echoes of his words.
    In truth, LaValle hardly cared whether the young 
troublemaker took those words to heart or not, but he was 
indeed concerned about the return of the assassin. Entreri 
unnerved the wizard, more so than all the other dangerous 
characters that LaValle had worked beside over the many 
years. LaValle had survived by posing a threat to no one, by 
serving without judgment whomever it was that had come to 
power in the guild. He had served Pasha Pook admirably, and 
when Pook had been disposed, he had switched his allegiance 
easily and completely to Regis, convincing even Regis's 
protective dark elf and dwarven friends that he was no 
threat. Similarly, when Entreri had gone against Regis, 
LaValle had stepped back and let the two decide the issue 
(though, of course, there had never been any doubt whatsoever 
in LaValle's mind as to which of those two would triumph), 
then throwing his loyalty to the victor. And so it had gone, 
down the line, master after master during the tumult 
immediately following
    Entreri's departure, to the present incarnation of 
guildmaster, Quentin Bodeau.
    Concerning Entreri, though, there remained one subtle 
difference. Over the decades, LaValle had built a 
considerable insulating defense about him. He worked very 
hard to make no enemies in a world where everyone seemed to 
be in deadly competition, but he also understood that even a 
benign bystander could get caught and slaughtered in the 
common battles. Thus he had built a defense of powerful magic 
and felt that if one such as Dog Perry decided, for whatever 
reason, that he would be better off without LaValle around, 
he would find the wizard more than ready and able to defend 
himself. Not so with Entreri, LaValle knew, and that is why 
even the sight of the man so unnerved him. In watching the 
assassin over the years, LaValle had come to know that where 
Entreri was concerned, there simply weren't enough defenses.
    He sat on his bed until very late that night, trying to 
remember every detail of every dealing he had ever had with 
the assassin and trying to figure out what, if anything in 
particular, had brought Entreri back to Calimport.
